>> David Khourshid: What are we
going to get out of this workshop?
We're going to learn core principles
of state management that will help you
architect these solutions that
scale with application complexity.
And even though that we're going to
be working on a React Next JS app,
all of these concepts
that you learned today,
they're going to be applicable
to any front end application.
Regardless of which framework you use.
We're going to keep it high level and
general.
So we're not going to be going in
depth into specialized hooks or
the nuances of how Next JS does things, or
the most shiny newest features of React.
There's actually a lot of great front
end masters courses already on that and
I highly encourage you to check those out.
But we are going to at the same time
be looking at common React pitfalls and
anti patterns that you may have run into.
And in general, we're going to be looking
at opportunities to improve your code
base and make it more clear,
understandable and maintainable.
Because at the end of the day,
we want to model and
manage our state in a way that is easy
to maintain, it's easy to update,
and it's easy for
our team to contribute to.
And so the skills and concepts that you
learn today are meant to be evergreen,
they're meant to be,
like I said, general, and
they're meant to be skills that
stay true whether React evolves,
you use different libraries or
maybe you work in different frameworks.
All right, so the structure of this
workshop, you should all have the repo.
It's GitHub.com davidcapiano Frontend
masters state Workshop this workshop is
split up into many lessons and exercises
like you could see on the screen.
Hopefully we'll be going
through all of them and
we're going to be working
on many of them together.
And I'm also going to hand a lot of these
exercises off to you to start off and
work on.
All of these lessons are designed to teach
you general state management concepts and
there's many that are actually also
going to teach you specific patterns and
anti patterns for React applications.
So I strongly encourage you to apply
these lessons to your own code bases or
even other open source React projects.
Because I guarantee that even though we
have exercises specific to this workshop,
you are going to find things in your
code bases where it's like, wow,
that pattern applies here.
So I could actually refactor my
code base and make these changes.
Also going to be showing you some third
party libraries that you can use to
help out and I do want you to understand
the principles behind these third
party libraries and the motivations for
why you would use them.
But again, I'm not telling you
that every single application you
use needs to have all of these tools.
That's absolutely not necessary.
And especially for state management,
you do not need to use third party
libraries for state management.
Like many developers,
I have been through the struggles of
managing state in large applications.
I worked in multi step forums where
we did a lot of bespoke PHP and
jQuery with very complex flows and
async data handling.
And I was doing this back in
the angular and backbone days and
unfortunately we weren't even
allowed to use those frameworks.
So when I was a junior developer
I was also a visual learner and
I really wanted to make sense
of all this spaghetti logic.
So I started learning about these
things called state machines and
even state charts.
And I created a library called XState.
And XState is a library for
managing state machines and state charts.
And I do have a couple of
courses on frontend masters for
Xstate if you want to learn about it.
But that is not what we're going
to be doing in this workshop.
Instead we're actually going to be taking
the main principles of event driven state
management and that's honestly at the core
of state machines and statecharts.
And we're going to be applying those
principles to our React applications.
What is our purpose in doing that?
First of all, we want to create these
apps with understandability at its core.
Again, you want to be able
to understand your logic.
You want your team members to understand
what all of the logic in your application.
You also want to be able to understand all
of the use cases and all of the edge cases
and train yourself to think of everything
that can possibly happen in your
application to prevent impossible
states and impossible transitions.
We also want to be able to
work in legacy applications so
that we could understand and
refactor messy legacy code so
that it becomes a lot easier to
add new features and fix bugs.
And it's 2025,
we have AI powered coding tools.
In fact,
our coding is going to be done in cursor.
And honestly,
when your app is organized and
your app logic is clear to a human,
it's also very clear to an LLM.
So if you're using a lot of AI assistance,
then having clarity in your code and
showing the LLM, this is my intention for
this feature is really going to help.
Just to explain the workshop
a little bit more so the structure,
we have a bunch of exercises and they're
all prefixed with Exercise Dash and
so the first one that we're going to
be starting with is the anti patterns
exercise and you're going to see a few
files here so you're going to see a page.
This is going to be the main page
that you're going to be working on.
You're going to see a readme that includes
the contents of this lesson as well
as a description of the exercise.
And we're also going to have a scratch
pad where you could basically just write
whatever you want.
You could also do whatever you
want in page tsx especially if you
clone the repo, it's yours.
So you could do whatever you want.
And if you want to peek into the solution
or I should probably say a solution
again there's no one size fits all for
state management so this is one of
many possible solutions depending
on your requirements for the app.
But if you want to peek in here while
you're working on these exercises then
this is an example solution
that will help you.